+++
date = "2016-12-12T10:53:11Z"
title = "Run to the Castle"
draft = true

+++

TODO: type up notes.

So this was it: the final race of the year. Just another 42 miles to drag my tired body up and down hills and across sandy beaches for and then I could finally take a well earned rest.

On the way to Snowdonia on the Friday night I suddenly realised I'd left my GPS watch at home so wasn't going to get a GPS trace for the event. Combined with [October's GPS craziness]({{< relref "post/2016/downslink.md" >}}) spoiling the track I was only going to have 10 tracked races for the year which felt a little disappointing.

As with the recent races, I'd lazily lurched into this one with little preparation in either training or really studying maps of the course to prepare myself for the long day ahead of me so when we lined up at the beach for the start of the race and there were only 34 other runners I started to get a little bit anxious. Having such a small field meant that the field was likely to break up quickly and leave me on my own for large chunks, particularly because my pacing is always all over the place which makes it difficult to stick with a group.

As we kicked off along the beach at Aberdyfi, I watched the front runners tear off into the distance and out of sight and ended up already by myself as others seemed a little too slow for the (mostly nervous) energy I usually have at the start of a race. Considering we were 5 minutes in and I was already being alternately dropped or dropping the few people around my pace this wasn't a good omen for the chances of being able to maintain a group for any length as the race really got under way.

Coming up to the first level crossing into Tywyn as a train came by gave us an informal grouping of 4 of us for a bit but as we got chatting away we straight away missed a turn at the lake

Forgot GPS watch
Tiny field (35 runners) - wary that the field would probably break up quickly and leave me on my own for large chunks, particularly because my pacing is always all over the place which makes it difficult to stick with a group
Start stretch along the beach, pretty much straight away by myself as the front runners tore off at the start but other people seemed too slow for the energy I usually have at the start of a race.
Getting to the first level crossing as a train came by, grouping 4 of us for a bit, and then straight away missing a turn at the lake (?) And going straight on and to the left until we realised where we were and jogged back to find the rest of the field - not a great start nav wise
Getting to first CP in good shape and knee doing okay still, was moving reasonably slowly to try and protect it but hadn't felt anything by that point. Was also way up on time - had been roughly aiming for 10 hours and making it to CP4 around nightfall but was well ahead at that point but still felt good so not too worried.
Leaving CP1 ahead of the two runners I'd entered with and then basically being by myself for about 45 minutes, occasionally hearing them chatting away in Welsh whenever I slowed down to make sure I wasn't lost.
Climbing up into hills (?) And visibility being reduced to about 20 metres, or worse in some patches, with fog up high. Took a couple of small missed turns and then bumped into a runner with a watch showing the route so thought I'd stick roughly with him but ended up tearing off downhills to make up for my lack of climbing ability.
Made it into CP2 with two runners but faffed a bit and they left just ahead of me. Once they went around the first corner up hill I lost sight of them and then I was back to being alone.
Struggling uphill and wary of the issues I'd had with my knee so went slowly, expecting other runners to catch up to me but didn't see anyone. Slowly climbing up into the forest (?) And then turning west back towards the coast but missed the turn. Realised I'd missed it, tried back tracking a bit but thought it might be a while back and might be better to carry on North and keep the higher path and then drop back into Fairbourne from there. Unfortunately after a while I came to a field with a rather feisty looking bull in it. Spent some time thinking about whether I could outrun it to a wall, leap that and then cut across the other field. And then I realised there was a bull in that field too. Started to make the long trek back up to the top and find the course.
Chastised myself for making the wrong decision instead of cutting back as soon as I realised I'd gone wrong but also tried to make sure I didn't get too worked up about the lost time and extra distance because it can very quickly snowball into a real problem, especially when running by yourself.
Once I got back on to the course I dropped down into Fairbourne, following tape and then when we were on to the road some red spray arrows but they were turning south when I was certain the map wanted me to go briefly north and then through Fairbourne. At this point, after my getting lost in the hills and having not seen anyone for ages I then kept second guessing myself so went back and forth a bit before deciding to head north and into Fairbourne as the map suggested. And then realised that it didn't matter at all because they would all end up going the same way in the end so I'd just wasted 10 more mins being indecisive.
Run walking through Fairbourne and along the front but by this point I hadn't seen anyone else for more than an hour and a half and realised how slow I was moving so started getting into my own head way too much and feeling pretty miserable.
Tracking north and east around Fairbourne to the railway bridge - everywhere was pretty flat and could see ahead and behind me for about a mile but still couldn't see any other runners so really started getting down.
Mostly walking through Barmouth and feeling sorry for myself. Seemed to drag on for ages. I'd run for a bit and then feel tired so would stop for a walk after what felt like 5-10 minutes but in reality had been about a minute. Started worrying about my mental state after such a long year and then such a long time by myself.
Finally made it to CP3 only to find out that I was only about 25 miles in to the course (plus a couple of miles of getting lost for me) so I'd spent 2.5 hours to cover about 7 miles.
Just before I left the checkpoint was joined by the first runner I'd seen CP2 which was a positive thing. Left ahead of them, expecting them to catch up not long after with how slow I was moving but made more of an effort to be running as much as possible so when she and the other runner who had joined her caught up with me I had an outside chance of keeping up with them instead of being instantly dropped which is about the most disheartening thing that can happen during an ultra but seems to happen to me way too much because of my terrible pacing.
They eventually caught up with me as we came off the main road in to (?). At that point I was feeling very sorry for myself and expecting them to shoot off much faster than me but decided that with the field so split that I would be best sucking it up and trying as hard as I could to keep up with them.
Talking to George and Rae when they asked how I was doing I told them that I was a bit mentally broken from getting lost and being by myself for so long which George then gently mocked me for.
We then managed to do a complete loop of a caravan park looking for signs or tape to point the way before picking up the route again. George had ran as sweeper for the August Run to the Castle so I was hoping she might know the route pretty well but she was saying she spent so long going back and forth finding lost people that she knew more where not to go rather than the right way.
After wandering around some fields for a while we picked up the road just before the final checkpoint which we'd managed to make just before dark as I'd hoped. We still had 10-12 miles for the last section though and while it would be flat we'd have to cope with two long stretches of beach and also some trickier navigation in the dark so I was thinking that 10 hours would probably be beyond us, especially as I expected to slow down in the dark and then would struggle to keep up with Rae and George.
Head torch, hat and coat on, we set out on to the first beach section which seemed to drag on for ages. With a break from having to navigate for a while as we trekked along the beach I got to speak more to George and how she'd only recently got into ultramarathons and yet she'd done GUCR earlier this year and somehow finished in 32 hours as the third lady - a pretty staggering time. Next year she's doing the canal slam (list races) a truly epic challenge.
Coming off the beach at Shell Island we had to navigate again as we followed the path in the dark around Llanbedr Airfield and across to the edge of Llanbedr. At this point I was feeling truly exhausted and briefly considered letting Rae and George head on without me while I plodded slowly to the finish. Then I remembered this was my last race of the year and I didn't have to worry about anything else and could push hard into the end, finishing proudly rather than with a bit of a whimper.
Managing to get a bit lost off road just before Pensarn station as we crossed the Artro and saw a footpath sign pointing across what looked to be another branch of the river. Ignoring the slightly confusing sign we decided to head west towards the shore until we came to a dead end of that route. Clambering over the dyke to look again over the river branch we realised that it was just a very flooded field and that we should have followed the sign north. Unfortunately we were now a fair bit further along from where we should have been so had to clamber over a barbed wire fence to avoid a long cut back. Mention about making a mess of the climb over?
After this we had a little bit more of finding our way around some fields and small roads, trying to spot the Welsh Coast Path signs in the dark before we came out to the main road just as we were meant to drop down steeply on to Harlech beach for the final stretch. However, just as we got there one of the marshalls sent us off down the main road into Harlech as we'd missed the tide and would have to swim into Harlech otherwise.
About a mile and a half later we pulled into the finish..
